book/cli/import.md, before:

# `reth import`

This syncs RLP encoded blocks from a file

```bash
$ reth import --help

Usage: reth import [OPTIONS] <IMPORT_PATH>

Arguments:
  <IMPORT_PATH>
          The path to a block file for import.
          
          The online stages (headers and bodies) are replaced by a file import, after which the
          remaining stages are executed.

Options:
      --config <FILE>
          The path to the configuration file to use.

      --datadir <DATA_DIR>
          The path to the data dir for all reth files and subdirectories.
          
          Defaults to the OS-specific data directory:
          
          - Linux: `$XDG_DATA_HOME/reth/` or `$HOME/.local/share/reth/`
          - Windows: `{FOLDERID_RoamingAppData}/reth/`
          - macOS: `$HOME/Library/Application Support/reth/`
          
          [default: default]

      --chain <CHAIN_OR_PATH>
          The chain this node is running.
          
          Possible values are either a built-in chain or the path to a chain specification file.
          
          Built-in chains:
          - mainnet
          - goerli
          - sepolia
          
          [default: mainnet]

  -h, --help
          Print help (see a summary with '-h')

Logging:
      --log.persistent
          The flag to enable persistent logs

      --log.directory <PATH>
          The path to put log files in
          
          [default: /reth/logs]

      --log.journald
          Log events to journald

      --log.filter <FILTER>
          The filter to use for logs written to the log file
          
          [default: error]

Display:
  -v, --verbosity...
          Set the minimum log level.
          
          -v      Errors
          -vv     Warnings
          -vvv    Info
          -vvvv   Debug
          -vvvvv  Traces (warning: very verbose!)

  -q, --quiet
          Silence all log output
```

Commit message:

chore(book): document missing CLI arguments (#3610)

book/cli/import.md, after:

# `reth import`

This syncs RLP encoded blocks from a file

```bash
$ reth import --help

Usage: reth import [OPTIONS] <IMPORT_PATH>

Options:
      --config <FILE>
          The path to the configuration file to use.

      --datadir <DATA_DIR>
          The path to the data dir for all reth files and subdirectories.
          
          Defaults to the OS-specific data directory:
          
          - Linux: `$XDG_DATA_HOME/reth/` or `$HOME/.local/share/reth/`
          - Windows: `{FOLDERID_RoamingAppData}/reth/`
          - macOS: `$HOME/Library/Application Support/reth/`
          
          [default: default]

      --chain <CHAIN_OR_PATH>
          The chain this node is running.
          
          Possible values are either a built-in chain or the path to a chain specification file.
          
          Built-in chains:
          - mainnet
          - goerli
          - sepolia
          
          [default: mainnet]

  -h, --help
          Print help (see a summary with '-h')

Database:
      --db.log-level <LOG_LEVEL>
          Database logging level. Levels higher than "notice" require a debug build

          Possible values:
          - fatal:   Enables logging for critical conditions, i.e. assertion failures
          - error:   Enables logging for error conditions
          - warn:    Enables logging for warning conditions
          - notice:  Enables logging for normal but significant condition
          - verbose: Enables logging for verbose informational
          - debug:   Enables logging for debug-level messages
          - trace:   Enables logging for trace debug-level messages
          - extra:   Enables logging for extra debug-level messages

  <IMPORT_PATH>
          The path to a block file for import.
          
          The online stages (headers and bodies) are replaced by a file import, after which the
          remaining stages are executed.

Logging:
      --log.persistent
          The flag to enable persistent logs

      --log.directory <PATH>
          The path to put log files in
          
          [default: /reth/logs]

      --log.journald
          Log events to journald

      --log.filter <FILTER>
          The filter to use for logs written to the log file
          
          [default: error]

Display:
  -v, --verbosity...
          Set the minimum log level.
          
          -v      Errors
          -vv     Warnings
          -vvv    Info
          -vvvv   Debug
          -vvvvv  Traces (warning: very verbose!)

  -q, --quiet
          Silence all log output
```
