book/cli/reth/init-state.md, before:

# reth init-state

Initialize the database from a state dump file

```bash
$ reth init-state --help
```
```txt
Usage: reth init-state [OPTIONS] <STATE_DUMP_FILE>

Options:
      --instance <INSTANCE>
          Add a new instance of a node.

          Configures the ports of the node to avoid conflicts with the defaults. This is useful for running multiple nodes on the same machine.

          Max number of instances is 200. It is chosen in a way so that it's not possible to have port numbers that conflict with each other.

          Changes to the following port numbers: - `DISCOVERY_PORT`: default + `instance` - 1 - `AUTH_PORT`: default + `instance` * 100 - 100 - `HTTP_RPC_PORT`: default - `instance` + 1 - `WS_RPC_PORT`: default + `instance` * 2 - 2

          [default: 1]

  -h, --help
          Print help (see a summary with '-h')

Datadir:
      --datadir <DATA_DIR>
          The path to the data dir for all reth files and subdirectories.

          Defaults to the OS-specific data directory:

          - Linux: `$XDG_DATA_HOME/reth/` or `$HOME/.local/share/reth/`
          - Windows: `{FOLDERID_RoamingAppData}/reth/`
          - macOS: `$HOME/Library/Application Support/reth/`

          [default: default]

      --datadir.static-files <PATH>
          The absolute path to store static files in.

      --config <FILE>
          The path to the configuration file to use

      --chain <CHAIN_OR_PATH>
          The chain this node is running.
          Possible values are either a built-in chain or the path to a chain specification file.

          Built-in chains:
              mainnet, sepolia, holesky, dev

          [default: mainnet]

Database:
      --db.log-level <LOG_LEVEL>
          Database logging level. Levels higher than "notice" require a debug build

          Possible values:
          - fatal:   Enables logging for critical conditions, i.e. assertion failures
          - error:   Enables logging for error conditions
          - warn:    Enables logging for warning conditions
          - notice:  Enables logging for normal but significant condition
          - verbose: Enables logging for verbose informational
          - debug:   Enables logging for debug-level messages
          - trace:   Enables logging for trace debug-level messages
          - extra:   Enables logging for extra debug-level messages

      --db.exclusive <EXCLUSIVE>
          Open environment in exclusive/monopolistic mode. Makes it possible to open a database on an NFS volume

          [possible values: true, false]

      --db.read-transaction-timeout <READ_TRANSACTION_TIMEOUT>
          Read transaction timeout in seconds, 0 means no timeout

  <STATE_DUMP_FILE>
          JSONL file with state dump.

          Must contain accounts in following format, additional account fields are ignored. Must
          also contain { "root": \<state-root\> } as first line.
          {
              "balance": "\<balance\>",
              "nonce": \<nonce\>,
              "code": "\<bytecode\>",
              "storage": {
                  "\<key\>": "\<value\>",
                  ..
              },
              "address": "\<address\>",
          }

          Allows init at a non-genesis block. Caution! Blocks must be manually imported up until
          and including the non-genesis block to init chain at. See 'import' command.

Logging:
      --log.stdout.format <FORMAT>
          The format to use for logs written to stdout

          [default: terminal]

          Possible values:
          - json:     Represents JSON formatting for logs. This format outputs log records as JSON objects, making it suitable for structured logging
          - log-fmt:  Represents logfmt (key=value) formatting for logs. This format is concise and human-readable, typically used in command-line applications
          - terminal: Represents terminal-friendly formatting for logs

      --log.stdout.filter <FILTER>
          The filter to use for logs written to stdout

          [default: ]

      --log.file.format <FORMAT>
          The format to use for logs written to the log file

          [default: terminal]

          Possible values:
          - json:     Represents JSON formatting for logs. This format outputs log records as JSON objects, making it suitable for structured logging
          - log-fmt:  Represents logfmt (key=value) formatting for logs. This format is concise and human-readable, typically used in command-line applications
          - terminal: Represents terminal-friendly formatting for logs

      --log.file.filter <FILTER>
          The filter to use for logs written to the log file

          [default: debug]

      --log.file.directory <PATH>
          The path to put log files in

          [default: <CACHE_DIR>/logs]

      --log.file.max-size <SIZE>
          The maximum size (in MB) of one log file

          [default: 200]

      --log.file.max-files <COUNT>
          The maximum amount of log files that will be stored. If set to 0, background file logging is disabled

          [default: 5]

      --log.journald
          Write logs to journald

      --log.journald.filter <FILTER>
          The filter to use for logs written to journald

          [default: error]

      --color <COLOR>
          Sets whether or not the formatter emits ANSI terminal escape codes for colors and other text formatting

          [default: always]

          Possible values:
          - always: Colors on
          - auto:   Colors on
          - never:  Colors off

Display:
  -v, --verbosity...
          Set the minimum log level.

          -v      Errors
          -vv     Warnings
          -vvv    Info
          -vvvv   Debug
          -vvvvv  Traces (warning: very verbose!)

  -q, --quiet
          Silence all log output
```

Commit message:

feat: without-evm cli option in reth (#12134)
Co-authored-by: Matthias Seitz <matthias.seitz@outlook.de>

book/cli/reth/init-state.md, after:

# reth init-state

Initialize the database from a state dump file

```bash
$ reth init-state --help
```
```txt
Usage: reth init-state [OPTIONS] <STATE_DUMP_FILE>

Options:
      --instance <INSTANCE>
          Add a new instance of a node.

          Configures the ports of the node to avoid conflicts with the defaults. This is useful for running multiple nodes on the same machine.

          Max number of instances is 200. It is chosen in a way so that it's not possible to have port numbers that conflict with each other.

          Changes to the following port numbers: - `DISCOVERY_PORT`: default + `instance` - 1 - `AUTH_PORT`: default + `instance` * 100 - 100 - `HTTP_RPC_PORT`: default - `instance` + 1 - `WS_RPC_PORT`: default + `instance` * 2 - 2

          [default: 1]

  -h, --help
          Print help (see a summary with '-h')

Datadir:
      --datadir <DATA_DIR>
          The path to the data dir for all reth files and subdirectories.

          Defaults to the OS-specific data directory:

          - Linux: `$XDG_DATA_HOME/reth/` or `$HOME/.local/share/reth/`
          - Windows: `{FOLDERID_RoamingAppData}/reth/`
          - macOS: `$HOME/Library/Application Support/reth/`

          [default: default]

      --datadir.static-files <PATH>
          The absolute path to store static files in.

      --config <FILE>
          The path to the configuration file to use

      --chain <CHAIN_OR_PATH>
          The chain this node is running.
          Possible values are either a built-in chain or the path to a chain specification file.

          Built-in chains:
              mainnet, sepolia, holesky, dev

          [default: mainnet]

Database:
      --db.log-level <LOG_LEVEL>
          Database logging level. Levels higher than "notice" require a debug build

          Possible values:
          - fatal:   Enables logging for critical conditions, i.e. assertion failures
          - error:   Enables logging for error conditions
          - warn:    Enables logging for warning conditions
          - notice:  Enables logging for normal but significant condition
          - verbose: Enables logging for verbose informational
          - debug:   Enables logging for debug-level messages
          - trace:   Enables logging for trace debug-level messages
          - extra:   Enables logging for extra debug-level messages

      --db.exclusive <EXCLUSIVE>
          Open environment in exclusive/monopolistic mode. Makes it possible to open a database on an NFS volume

          [possible values: true, false]

      --db.read-transaction-timeout <READ_TRANSACTION_TIMEOUT>
          Read transaction timeout in seconds, 0 means no timeout

      --without-evm
          Specifies whether to initialize the state without relying on EVM historical data.

          When enabled, and before inserting the state, it creates a dummy chain up to the last EVM block specified. It then, appends the first block provided block.

          - **Note**: **Do not** import receipts and blocks beforehand, or this will fail or be ignored.

      --header <HEADER_FILE>
          Header file containing the header in an RLP encoded format.

      --total-difficulty <TOTAL_DIFFICULTY>
          Total difficulty of the header.

      --header-hash <HEADER_HASH>
          Hash of the header.

  <STATE_DUMP_FILE>
          JSONL file with state dump.

          Must contain accounts in following format, additional account fields are ignored. Must
          also contain { "root": \<state-root\> } as first line.
          {
              "balance": "\<balance\>",
              "nonce": \<nonce\>,
              "code": "\<bytecode\>",
              "storage": {
                  "\<key\>": "\<value\>",
                  ..
              },
              "address": "\<address\>",
          }

          Allows init at a non-genesis block. Caution! Blocks must be manually imported up until
          and including the non-genesis block to init chain at. See 'import' command.

Logging:
      --log.stdout.format <FORMAT>
          The format to use for logs written to stdout

          [default: terminal]

          Possible values:
          - json:     Represents JSON formatting for logs. This format outputs log records as JSON objects, making it suitable for structured logging
          - log-fmt:  Represents logfmt (key=value) formatting for logs. This format is concise and human-readable, typically used in command-line applications
          - terminal: Represents terminal-friendly formatting for logs

      --log.stdout.filter <FILTER>
          The filter to use for logs written to stdout

          [default: ]

      --log.file.format <FORMAT>
          The format to use for logs written to the log file

          [default: terminal]

          Possible values:
          - json:     Represents JSON formatting for logs. This format outputs log records as JSON objects, making it suitable for structured logging
          - log-fmt:  Represents logfmt (key=value) formatting for logs. This format is concise and human-readable, typically used in command-line applications
          - terminal: Represents terminal-friendly formatting for logs

      --log.file.filter <FILTER>
          The filter to use for logs written to the log file

          [default: debug]

      --log.file.directory <PATH>
          The path to put log files in

          [default: <CACHE_DIR>/logs]

      --log.file.max-size <SIZE>
          The maximum size (in MB) of one log file

          [default: 200]

      --log.file.max-files <COUNT>
          The maximum amount of log files that will be stored. If set to 0, background file logging is disabled

          [default: 5]

      --log.journald
          Write logs to journald

      --log.journald.filter <FILTER>
          The filter to use for logs written to journald

          [default: error]

      --color <COLOR>
          Sets whether or not the formatter emits ANSI terminal escape codes for colors and other text formatting

          [default: always]

          Possible values:
          - always: Colors on
          - auto:   Colors on
          - never:  Colors off

Display:
  -v, --verbosity...
          Set the minimum log level.

          -v      Errors
          -vv     Warnings
          -vvv    Info
          -vvvv   Debug
          -vvvvv  Traces (warning: very verbose!)

  -q, --quiet
          Silence all log output
```
