book/installation.md, before:

## Installation

(still WIP, please contribute!):


### Ubuntu
Building the source

* install rustup
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

* install Requirements
- libclang-dev
- pkg-config

```bash
apt install libclang-dev pkg-config
```
* Build reth
```bash
git clone https://github.com/paradigmxyz/reth
cd reth
cargo build --all
./target/debug/reth
```

### MacOS

To install and build reth on macOS using Homebrew, you can use the following steps

* Install rustup by running the following command in a terminal:
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

* Install the necessary requirements by running the following command:
```bash
brew install llvm pkg-config
```

* Clone the reth repository and navigate to the directory:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/paradigmxyz/reth
cd reth
```

* Build reth using cargo:
```bash
cargo build --all
```

* Run reth:
```bash
./target/debug/reth
```

* Alternatively, you can use the following one-liner to install and build reth:
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh && brew install llvm pkg-config && git clone https://github.com/paradigmxyz/reth && cd reth && cargo build --all && ./target/debug/reth
```



### Docker
-
-

Commit message:

Update the document by adding information on how to install Geth and Lighthouse. (#568)
* Update the document by adding information on how to install Geth and Lighthouse.

* Include links to the installation pages for Geth and Lighthouse in the document.

* Change the link to the installation documentation to point to the Geth installation documentation at this link: https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/install-and-build/installing-geth.

Co-authored-by: Satoshi Okamoto <satoshi@butcher73.com>

book/installation.md, after:

## Installation

To use Reth, you must first install Geth. You can find instructions for installing Geth at the following link: https://geth.ethereum.org/docs/install-and-build/installing-geth.

### Ubuntu
Building the source

* install rustup
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

* install Requirements
 - libclang-dev
 - pkg-config

```bash
apt install libclang-dev pkg-config
```
* Build reth
```bash
git clone https://github.com/paradigmxyz/reth
cd reth
cargo build --all
./target/debug/reth
```

### MacOS

To install and build reth on macOS using Homebrew, you can use the following steps

* Install rustup by running the following command in a terminal:
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```

* Install the necessary requirements by running the following command:
```bash
brew install llvm pkg-config
```

* Clone the reth repository and navigate to the directory:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/paradigmxyz/reth
cd reth
```

* Build reth using cargo:
```bash
cargo build --all
```

* Run reth:
```bash
./target/debug/reth
```

* Alternatively, you can use the following one-liner to install and build reth:
```bash
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh && brew install llvm pkg-config && git clone https://github.com/paradigmxyz/reth && cd reth && cargo build --all && ./target/debug/reth
```
